---
layout:  post    # 使用的布局（不需要改）
catalog: true   # 是否归档
author: 陈国林 # 作者
tags:         #标签
    - TSDB
---

Relational databases include: MySQL, MariaDB Server, PostgreSQL. 
NoSQL databases include: Elastic, InfluxDB, MongoDB, Cassandra, Couchbase, Graphite, Prometheus, ClickHouse, OpenTSDB, DalmatinerDB, KairosDB, RiakTS. Source: Percona. 

This is an old, common problem for relational databases. Under most relational databases, a table is stored as a collection of fixed-size pages of data (e.g., 8KB pages in PostgreSQL), on top of which the system builds data structures (such as B-trees) to index the data. With an index, a query can quickly find a row with a specified ID (e.g., bank account number) without scanning the entire table or “walking” the table in some sorted order.

In an LSM tree, all updates are first written a sorted table in memory, and then flushed to disk as an immutable batch, stored as an SSTable, which is often indexed in memory. Source: igvita.com
This architecture — which has been adopted by many “NoSQL” databases like LevelDB, Google BigTable, Cassandra, MongoDB (WiredTiger), and InfluxDB — may seem great at first. Yet it introduces other tradeoffs: higher memory requirements and poor secondary index support.

OLTP Writes
1. Primarily UPDATES
2. Randomly distributed (over the set of primary keys)
3. Often transactions across multiple primary keys

Time-series Writes
1. Primarily INSERTs
2. Primarily to a recent time interval
3. Primarily associated with both a timestamp and a separate primary key (e.g., server ID, device ID, security/account ID, vehicle/asset ID, etc.)

In other words, time-series workloads are append only.

https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb

List of time series databases https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_series_database

What is a time series database?
```
A time series database (TSDB) is a database optimized for time-stamped or time series data. Time series data are simply measurements or events that are tracked, monitored, downsampled, and aggregated over time. This could be server metrics, application performance monitoring, network data, sensor data, events, clicks, trades in a market, and many other types of analytics data.

A time series database is built specifically for handling metrics and events or measurements that are time-stamped. A TSDB is optimized for measuring change over time. Properties that make time series data very different than other data workloads are data lifecycle management, summarization, and large range scans of many records.
```





